.TH PYCDLIB-EXPLORER 1 "Jan 2018" "pycdlib-explorer"

.SH NAME
pycdlib-explorer - tool to examine and modify ISOs using pycdlib

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pycdlib-explorer <iso-file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a tool to examine and modify existing ISO files on disk.
Using this tool, the files, directories, and metadata on an ISO
can be examined, new files can be added, and old files can be
deleted.  Note that due to the nature of the ISO standard,
files cannot be modified in place in a general way.  To accomplish
this, remove the file and then re-add it with new contents.

Note that due to the nature of the ISO standard, the commands that modify
the ISO only modify the in-memory copy.  No changes are made to the
original file until the \fBwrite\fR command is issued.

Also note that pycdlib-explorer has no command-line options; instead,
its behavior is controlled entirely at runtime through commands.
The following section describes the available commands in pycdlib-explorer.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B "add_file <iso_path> <src_filename> [rr_name=<rr_name>] [joliet_path=<joliet_path>]"
Add the contents of <src_filename> to the ISO at the location specified in <iso_path>.
If the ISO is a Rock Ridge ISO, <rr_name> must be specified; otherwise, it must not be.
If the ISO is not a Joliet ISO, <joliet_path> must not be specified.  If the ISO is a
Joliet ISO, <joliet_path> is optional, but highly recommended to supply.
.TP
.B "cd <iso_dir>"
Change relative directories to \fBiso_dir\fR for exploration.
.TP
.B "cwd"
Show the current working directory.
.TP
.B "exit"
Exit out of pycdlib-explorer.
.TP
.B "get <iso_file> <out_file>"
Copy the contents of the relative or absolute ISO path \fBiso_file\fR into \fBout_file\fR.
.TP
.B "help"
Print the available commands.  Use "help <cmd>" for a more detailed
description of the commands, including the command-line arguments they
require.
.TP
.B "ls"
Show the contents of the current working directory. The format of the output is:
TYPE(F=file, D=directory) NAME.
.TP
.B "mkdir <iso_path> [rr_name=<rr_name>] [joliet_path=<joliet_path>]"
Make a new directory called <iso_path>.
If the ISO is a Rock Ridge ISO, <rr_name> must be specified; otherwise, it must not be.
If the ISO is not a Joliet ISO, <joliet_path> must not be specified.  If the ISO is a
Joliet ISO, <joliet_path> is optional, but highly recommended to supply.
.TP
.B "print_mode [iso9660|rr|joliet|udf]"
Change which 'mode' of filenames are printed out.  There are four main
modes: ISO9660 (iso9660, the default), Rock Ridge (rr), Joliet (joliet), and
UDF (udf).  The original iso9660 mode only allows filenames of 8 characters,
plus 3 for the extension.  The Rock Ridge extensions allow much longer
filenames and much deeper directory structures.  The Joliet extensions also
allow longer filenames and deeper directory structures, but in an entirely
different namespace (though in most circumstances, the Joliet namespace will
mirror the ISO9660/Rock Ridge namespace).  The UDF Bridge extensions add an
entirely parallel UDF namespace to the ISO as well.  Any given ISO will always
have ISO9660 mode, but may have any combination of Rock Ridge, Joliet, and UDF
(including none of them).  Running this command with no arguments prints out
the current mode.  Passing 'iso9660' as an argument sets it to the original
ISO9660 mode.  Passing 'rr' as an argument sets it to Rock Ridge mode.
Passing 'joliet' as an argument sets it to Joliet mode.  Passing 'udf' as an
argument sets it to UDF mode.
.TP
.B "quit"
Exit out of pycdlib-explorer.
.TP
.B "rm_file <iso_path>"
Remove the file named \fBiso_path\fR from the ISO.  Note that this
must be a file; to remove a directory, use \fBrmdir\fR.
.TP
.B "rmdir <iso_path>"
Remove the directory named \fBiso_path\fR from the ISO.  Note that
this must be a directory; to remove a file, use \fBrm_file\fR.
.TP
.B "tree"
List the contents of the ISO in a tree-like format, similar to the
bash \fBtree\fR command.
.TP
.B "write <out_file>"
Write a valid ISO9660 file out to \fBout_file\fR, taking into
account any changes made while running the program.  This is
also sometimes referred to as "mastering" the ISO.  Note that
the \fBout_file\fR must NOT be the same file as the input
file, or the resulting ISO will not work properly.

.SH SEE ALSO
pycdlib-compare(1), pycdlib-genisoimage(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lalancette <clalancette@gmail.com>
